you forgot to rotate your tires the
alignment is out of spec or you've hit
something in the road whatever the
reason now you need two new tires every
year thousands of people are faced with
similar situations resulting in needing
fewer than four new replacement tires be
an informed consumer insist that the two
new tires be installed on the rear of
the vehicle two identical vehicles but
with one big difference on the white car
the new tires are mounted on the rear
then the front tires are half worn on
the blue car the new tires are mounted
on the front and the rear tires are half
worn sounds like a subtle difference but
watch what happens when we put them on
the road the new tyres have deeper trip
and will grip the road in channel water
more effectively than the worn tires as
the tires move through standing water
and if the tires with the deeper Treader
on the front the rear tires will
hydroplane first if the rear tires lose
traction because of hydroplaning the
vehicle we'll begin fishtail this is the
vehicle with the new tires mounted on
the front the car is moving at 45 miles
per hour and as you can see they're
standing water on the pavement ideal
conditions for hydroplaning see what
happens to the rear of the vehicle the
tire have obviously lost their grip this
is far less likely to occur when the
tires with the greater traction are put
on the rear if there's any loss of
traction on the front tires the driver
will feel it through the steering wheel
and then can make the necessary speed
and or steering corrections to reduce
the likelihood of spinning out of
control in this comparison with both
vehicles traveling at the same speed
which one would you like to be driving
this is actual footage from a police
pursuit on this car new tires were
recently mounted on the front axle only
these are professional drivers working
in controlled conditions the average
driver will very likely be unable to
control the vehicle when the rear tires
lose traction your tires are the only
part of vehicle making contact with the
road and we've just seen how I'm
important that contact can be so
remember whom replacing only two tires
don't put your best foot forward always
put the new tires on the rear
you